MOTBA Core Rules
-----------------------------------------------------
Requirements:

Players:
Player Count 2+
Suggested 2-4

Space: 
A table big enough to accomodate the number
of players as though it was comfortable dinner seating.

Time:
1.5 hours

Supplies:
Deck of Numbered Cards
Deck of character Cards
Deck of Artifact Cards
Stack of Arenas
at least 12 MOTBA Action Dice.
at least 1 MOTBA Offense Die.
at least 1 MOTBA Defense Die.
at least 1 MOTBA Bonus Die.

Tokens for Tracking Damage
Tokens for Tracking Shields
Tokens for Tracking Cooldown
Tokens for Tracking Special
Tokens for Misc uses.

A collection of distinguishable objects to be used as miniatures
to represent the Characters in battle. These objects should fit within
the space of a single tile of an Arena title. You should have at least 3 per
player, but you may need a few more.

A means to set a timer. A smart phone should do.

-----------------------------------------------------
Setup:

MOTBA is played in "Seasons" which can consist of 1 or more "Battles"
Setup is done per Season. There are a few Season variants.

Season Setup:

Standard Season
1: Shuffle the Numbered cards into a pile, Character cards into a pile, Artifact cards into a pile, and Arenas into a pile.
2: Draw 6 X ( Number of Players + 1 ) Character cards faced down. This becomes the Character Pool. Set aside the rest.
3: Draw 8 X ( Number of Players + 1) Artifact cards faced down. This becomes the Artifact Pool. Set aside the rest.
4: Draw 3 X ( Number of Players + 1) Arenas face down. This becomes the Arena pool. Set aside the rest.

Infinite Season
1: Shuffle the Numbered cards into a pile, Character cards into a pile, Artifact cards into a pile, and Arenas into a pile.
2: The Character card pile becomes the Character Pool.
3: The Artifiact card pile becomes the Artifact Pool.
4: The Arena tile pile becomes the Arena Pool.

Tight Season
1: Shuffle the Numbered cards into a pile, Character cards into a pile, Artifact cards into a pile, and Arenas into a pile.
2: Draw 5 X ( Number of Players + 1) + 1 Character cards faced down. This becomes the Character Pool. Set aside the rest.
3: Draw 5 X ( Number of Players + 1) + 1 Artifact cards faced down. This becomes the Artifact Pool. Set aside the rest.
4: Draw 3 X ( Number of Players + 1) Arenas face down. This becomes the Arena pool. Set aside the rest.

Fan Season
1: Shuffle the Numbered cards into a pile
2: All players go through all Character Cards. If at least one player wants a Character, it's added to the Character pool.
3: All players go through all Artifact Cards. If at least one player wants an Artifact it's added to the Artifact pool.
4: All players go through all Arena Cards. If at least one player wants an Arena it's added to the Arena pool.

Season By Comittee
2: All players go through all Character Cards. If at least half of players want a Character, it's added to the Character pool.
3: All players go through all Artifact Cards. If at least half of players want an Artifact it's added to the Artifact pool.
4: All players go through all Arena Cards. If at least half of players want an Arena it's added to the Arena pool.

Pregen Season
Seasons of Characters and Artifacts can be created outside of games, and can be used,
skipping the need to generate your Pools. In this variant, Character and Artifact Pools
are taken directly from these lists.

Customization Options:
If a Character or Artifact is deemed to Powerful, Silly, Weak, or whatever,
feel free to perma-ban it, and exclude it as an option for any method of s]
generating a season.

-----------------------------------------------------
Battle:

A Battle is a single unit of play in MOTBA. Could be thought of as a "Match".
The goal of a Battle is to draft the best team you can, and be the last team standing.

A battle is broken down into a number of Stages. They are as follows:
1: Reserve Selection
2: Arena Selection
3: Team Creation
4: The Reveal
5: Placement
6: Fight
7: Results

Each of these Stages will be described below.

------------------------------------------------
Reserve Selection

In Reserve Selection, each player will select their collection of Characters
and Artifacts from which they will build their team to bring into battle.
There are 2 main forms of Reserve Selection: Prepared, and Draft. Each these forms
have a few variants. These variants can apply to Character Selection, Artifact Selection,
or both.

Standard Prepared:
1: A reserve of 5 cards are selected from the Pool by each player in separate.
Each player has access to the entire Pool for the respective card type.
2: Once all players have picked their Reserves, all Reserves are revealed.


Unique Prepared: 
1: A reserve of 5 cards are selected from a shared pool of the respective card type.
Cards are selected in no particular order. A player can only reserve cards they put into
their Reserve. If it isn't in the Reserve, it is available for selection.
Cards are available in a first come - first serve basis.
2: Once all players have picked their Reserves, all Reserves are revealed.

Standard Draft:
1: Each Player selects a random card from the Number deck. (Except for players who picked initial roles in previous stages this Battle)
2: The Player with the highest card chooses "First Pick" or "Double Ban". 
	The Player to their right gets the one that wasn't selected.
	Stage Play Direction (SPD) is clockwise if the Player picked "First Pick", counter-clockwise if "Double Ban"
3: Draft starts with "First Pick" and proceeds in SPD with each player picking one card to "Ban". 
	Banned cards are removed from the Pool for the rest of this Battle.
4: When it gets to the last "Double Ban Player" that player gets to ban a second and final card.
5: "First Pick" Player becomes "Draft Leader"
6: Play starts with the Draft Lead and continues in SPD, with each player taking a card from the pool,
	and adding it to their reserve.
7: After all players have picked, the "Draft Leader" position goes to the next Player in clockwise order.
8: Repeat 6, and 7 until all players have picked 5 cards.

Mini Draft:
1: Each Player selects a random card from the Number deck. (Except for players who picked initial roles in previous stages this Battle)
2: The Player with the highest card becomes "Draft Leader"
1: Shuffle the Pool into a Pool Deck.
2: Draw 6 cards in the case of Characters, and 8 in the case of Artifacts.
	Put them in the center of the table. This becomes the Pool.
3: The person to the right of the Draft Leader bans 1 card.
4: Starting with the Draft Leader, and proceeding clockwise, each player picks a card.
5: Once all players have picked a card. The next player in clockwise order becomes "Draft Leader"
6: Repeat steps 2-5 until all players have selected 5 cards.

Pack Draft:
1: Randomly divide the pool as evenly as possible across all players facedown into "Packs"
2: Each player picks up the pack in front of them.
3: Each player discards a card facedown to a shared "Ban" Pile".
4: Each player passes their pack clockwise.
5: Each player picks 1 card facedown to their Reserve.
6: Repeat steps 4-5 until all players have 5 cards, discarding any extras to a "surplus" pile.
7: The Ban Pile is Revealed.
8: All Reserves are Revealed.

Chaos Mode:
1: Each Player selects a random card from the Number deck. (Except for players who picked initial roles in previous stages this Battle)
2: The Player with the highest card becomes "Double Ban".
3: Each Player in clockwise order, starting with the one to the left of "Double Ban" bans 1 card from the Pool.
4: Double Ban then bans a second, and final card.
5: The remaining cards are reshuffled into the Pool Deck.
6: The Pool Deck is distributed randomly and evenly across all players. This becomes their Reserves.
8: All Reserves are Revealed.
------------------------------------------------
Arena Selection

1: All players draw a random card from the number deck. (Except for players who picked initial roles in previous stages this Battle)
2: The player with the highest card gets to select "Options Picker" or Arena Picker".
	The player to their right becomes the role that wasn't picked.
	Stage Play Direction (SPD) is clockwise if the Player picked "Options Picker", counter-clockwise if "Arena Picker"
3: The Options picker selects a number of Arenas from the Arena Pool = # of players + 2
4: In clockwise order, each player between the "Options Picker" and  the Arena Picker" discards one of the remaining Arenas.
5: The Arena Picker chooses an Arena from the remaining options. That becomes the Battle Arena. 

------------------------------------------------
Team Creation

Team Creation is the Stage in which players form the team which they will bring to battle.
The goal is to bring the team and loadout you feel will bring you victory based on your options,
your opponent's options, and the Battle Arena.

While Reserves are Public Information, at this Stage, Teams are Hidden Information.

Teams are made from 3 Character slots, and 3 Artifact slots.
Place Characters in a row, face down, left to right, in the order you wish them to be revealed.
Then place Artifacts in a second row, facedown, left to right, in the order you wish them to be revealed.

Some Characters and Artifacts take up multiple slots. In the case you select these cards for your Team.
you may put blank cards down to fill in "gaps". No real card can be right of a blank card, real cards
must all be placed in earlier slots, before the blank cards.

------------------------------------------------
The Reveal

1: All players draw a random card from the number deck. (Except for players who picked initial roles in previous stages this Battle)
2: The player with the highest card chooses "First Player" or "Last Player". 
	The player to their right becomes the role they didn't pick.
	Play Direction is clockwise if the Player picked "First Pick", counter-clockwise if "Last Player"
3: One at a time each player reveals their next Character in order until all characters are revealed.
4: One at a time each player reveals their next Artifact, and chooses its target (if any) until all artifacts are revealed.

------------------------------------------------
Placement

1: In order, players pick their starting zone.
2: All players can freely choose the initial placement of their units, provided
the placement is within their starting zone. Placement continues until all players
are satisfied, or 1 minute passes.

------------------------------------------------
Fight

Fights are broken into "Rounds", in which each player gets a "Turn", which are broken into "Phases",
which are broken into "Steps".

Play continues until, at the end of a turn, only one player has Characters left alive.

Round
1: Round Start
Effects that trigger "at start of round" happen.
"First Player" begins Turn as Active Player.

	1: Start Phase
		1: Effects that trigger "at start of turn" happen.

	2: Roll Phase
		1: Active Player adds 6 MOTBA Action Dice to their Pool
		2: Dice in pool are added or removed according to effects.
		*3: All dice in pool are rolled.
		4: Active player then gets 2 Pool Rerolls.
		5: Number of Rerolls are modified according to effects.
		*6: As long as the Active Player has Rerolls remaining, they may pick up any or all of the dice in their Pool and roll them again.
			Note: A player may reroll dice they chose not to roll in an earlier reroll.
		7: Roll Manipulation abilities may be played.
		8: Dice Results become the "Action Pool".
			Sword: Attack Die
			Shield: Block Die
			Boot: Movement Die
			Heart: Heal Die
			Hourglass: Cooldown Die
			S Coin: Special Die
	3: Setup Phase
		1: Effects that trigger "at start of setup phase" happen.
		*2: Active Player may assign dice, all at once, of the following types:
			Heal: Assigned to an ally unit. 1 damage is removed per die assigned.
			Cooldown : Assigned to an ally unit. Add 1 cooldown token to the unit for each basic ability.
				Note: # tokens on an ability can't exceed its listed cooldown.
			Special : Assign to self. Adds 1 Special token. Number of held special tokens can't exceed 3 stages worth.
				Note: 5 Coins = 1 Stage.
			Note: Dice can only be assigned to living units.

		3: End of Setup
	4: Action Phase
		1: Effects that trigger "at start of action phase" happen.
		2: Until Active Player passes turn, or runs out of action die to assign, units to assign die too, or abilities to activate, the may:
			@Assign a Movement Die to a unit: Unit gains Movement Points (MP) = to their Speed (Boot Symbol on Character Stats). 
				Every Movement Die assigned to a Unit beyond the first in a single step, is worth half the movement points, rounded up, as the previous die assigned.
				Eg, for a unit with a move score of 3:
					1 die: 3 MP
					2 die: 5 MP (3 + 3/2) -> (3 + 2)
					3 die: 6 MP (3 + 3/2 + ?) -> (3 + 2 + 2/2) -> (3 + 2 + 1)
					4 die: 7MP (3 + 3/2 + ? + ?) -> (3 + 2 + 2/2 + ?) -> (3 + 2 + 1 + 1/2) -> (3 + 2 + 1 + 1)
				This is known as Movement Diminishing Returns.
			@Spend a Unit's MP: Each MP a Unit spend lets them move to an adjact space (diagonal spaces are NOT adjacent).
				Can't move through enemy Units, or Obstacles
				Can't end movement in a space occupied by another Unit or Obstacle.
			@Assign a Block Die to a Unit: Unit gains Block Points (BP) = to their Defense (Shield Symbol on Character Stats).
				As with Movement die, each Block Die spent on the same Unit in a single step, is worth half the block points, rounded up.
					This is Known as Blocking Diminishing Returns.
			@Assign an Attack Die to a Unit:
				Choose one of the following:
				A: Provided the Assigned Unit has a Melee Power (Sword) > 0, and is adjacent to a Targetable Unit or Obstacle which this Unit has not attacked yet this Turn, the Player can have that Assigned Unit Initiate an attack against an adjacent Unit.
				B: Provided the Assigned Unit has a Ranged Power (Bow, first number) > 0, Ranged Range (Bow, second number) > 1, and there is a Targetable Unit or Obstacle in range 2 - the Ranged Range which this Unit has not attacked yet this Turn, the Player can have that assigned Unit initiate an attack against a valid Unit.
				If neither A nor B are possible, the Attack Die can not be assigned to the Unit in question in this method.
				Note: Multiple Units may be attacked by a single Unit in a single Turn, provided its controlling player has enough die.
			
			Attack Sub-phase
				A: Attacks against adjacent Units are "Melee", attack against Units further away are "Ranged".
				B: The initiating Unit is the "Attacker" and the receiver is the "Defender".
				1: "Whenever a/this Unit Attacks", or "Whenever this Unit is Attacked" effects are triggered.
				2: A number of Attack Points (AP) are generated = to the respective Power stat of the attacking Unit.
				3: Additional die may be spent to increase the AP by an amount equal to half the amount generated by the previous spent die in this attack (rounded up).
					This is known as Attack Diminishing Returns.
				4: Remove 1 BP to remove 1 AP as long as BP remains on the targeted unit, and AP remains on the Attacker.
					Note: As long as 1 BP is spent this way, the attack is considered "Blocked".
					Note: If BP is reduced to 0, the attack has "Block Broke".
					Note: If AP is reduced to 0, the attack was "Fully Blocked".
					Note: If AP is reduced to 0, and remaining BP is >= 1, the attack was "Perfectly Blocked".
				5: Each remaining AP (if any) adds a damage token to the target.
					Note: If AP was reduced to 0, the attack happens, but it does not "damage" the target.
				6: If a "Counter" was triggered, Attack Sub-Phase is repeated, with Defender and Attacker roles switched.
					
	5: Turn End Phase
		1: Effects that Trigger "At end of turn" happen.
		2: If the next player in Play Direction hasn't been Active Player for a Turn yet during this Round, they become Active Player, and a new Turn Stars.
			Otherwise, proceed to Round Stage, Round End Phase
			
2: Round End
	1: Effects that Triggers "At end of round" happen.
	2: Round count increments.
	3: Evaluate optional Round limit. If limit is reached, proceed to Result Stage.
				
				
Fight Notes:

	At any time during the Fight (except in exceptions listed), ANY player (not just the active) may perform one of the following actions:
	
	@Activate a Basic Ability: 
	Provided a Unit has an ability with a number of cooldown tokens = to the ability cooldown, that unit may remove all cooldown tokens from that ability to activate the ability.
		Note: Abilities may only be triggered this way once per turn.
		Note: Characters start with 0 cooldown tokens, this means all basic abilities start "on cooldown", and are unusable until enough cooldown tokens are placed.
		Note: Attacks can be triggered by an Ability. If so, refer to the Attack Sub-Phase.
		
	@Activate a Special Ability: 
	Provided a Unit has a special ability with a cost <= the number of special stages currently held by the player, that unit may activate that Special Ability by spending special.
		Note: If the ability has a number listed next to the special icon, that is the minimum number of stages needed to activate the special ability.
			If no number is listed, the minimum stage cost is 1
		Note: Extra special stages may be spent when activating an ability. This is called "Overloading". Some Special Abilities have bonuses for Overloading.
			If values are listed with "/" eg 1/3/5, that means use 1 for 1 stage spent, 3 when Overloading once, and 5 when overloading twice.
			
	Whenever an ability is activated, or a phase/subphase is about to happen, or the results of assigning a die are about to ocur, a player can "interrupt" by activating a valid ability.
	In turn another ability may be activated "in response" to that, and so on. These abilities are added to the "battle stack".
	Once people stop activating abilities, the queued up abilities/phases/sub-phases/results "resolve" from the most recent element added to the "battle stack". down to the oldest.
	Until the resolution of an element adds something to the battle stack, players can't interrupt until the stack is empty again.
	
	Out of Turn Assignment: 
	Some effects allow you to assign dice at a time outside of the normal phases. These assignments always enter the battle stack.
	These assignments work like the would on your turn except: You are not considered the active player.
	
	Assignment as Cost:
	Some effects have text like "Ignore first Attack die in all attacks against this Unit".
	This means that a Unit needs to spend at least 2 Attack Die to attack this Unit. However,
	since the first Die was ignored, it is also ignored for the purposes of Attack Diminishing returns.
	ie if the Attacker as 3 Melee Power, then assigning 2 dice to attack would give an AP of 3, not 2.
	
	Health:
	A Unit can't have more Health than its max health. If it would heal more damage than it has, instead its current HP becomes its max HP.
	
	Losing Max Health:
	If a Unit has its Max Health Reduced, it keeps its damage. This means if a Unit had 10 HP, and 8 damage, and had its max HP reduced by 2, it would die.
	
	Dying:
	If the number of Damage tokens on a Unit equals or exceeds its health, it dies. 
		Remove attack actions involving it from the Battle Stack. 
		Remove the unit from the board, and flip its card over.
		
	Status Effects:
	Some abilities involving various "status effects". Here are the rules for them:
	
	Rooted: Movement die can't be assigned to this unit.
		Note: This includes costs, as well as standard motion.
	
	Poison X: Each time this Unit is "poisoned" it gains a "stack" of "poison". At the end of its owner's turn, it loses HP = to the number of poison stacks on it.
		This is considered "losing health", and so BP is not reduced. It's not considered an attack, so it isn't blocked, and isn't countered.
		
	Stunned: Can't be activated, or take any action that would activate it. Can still be assigned dice in Setup.
	
	#Stat Change: Some effects are changes to stats, like "+2 Max HP", or "-1 Move Speed", which aren't associated directly with a Character or Artifact.

	#: This stat can only be removed via cleanse, and will remain through character death.
		
	Keywords:
	Some Characters, Abilities, Artifacts etc. references Key Words. Below are what some mean.
	
	Obstacle: Something on the board, that can't be moved through, and a Unit can't end its turn in its space.
	It can be targeted by attacks, but is not considered as "belonging" to a player.
	
	Teleport: Move straight to the specified space. Does not count as having entered any of the intervening spaces, and therefore can ignore enemy unit placement,
	obstacles, hazards, etc, for the purposes of moving. 
	
	Terrain:
	Some Characters, Abilities, Artifacts modify the Arena. Also, some Arenas have interesting effects on spaces. This is called Terrain.
	
	Difficult: Costs an additional MP to leave.
	Hazardous X: Causes X damage when entering this space.
	Deadly X: Causes X damage when entering this space, and X damage when starting turn on space.
	Road: Every 2nd Road space entered on the same turn by a Unit grants 1 MP to that Unit.
	Poisonous: Starting turn on space grants 1 stack of poison.
	Trapped: Causes some effect on entry. Removes from board.
	Defensive: Grants +1 BP to units that end turn on space.
	Offensive: Grants +1 Melee Power, +1 Ranged Range to units on space.

			
Phase Legend:
	*: This step is not interruptable, and no abilities may be voluntarily activated unless otherwise stated by any player.
	@: Units chosen for this action are considered "Activated".
		1: All remaining BP on this unit are lost.
		2: Abilities triggering "on activation" happen.
		Note: Units must be alive to be activated.

------------------------------------------------
Results

1: Winner is last player with at least 1 unit left alive on the board at the end of a turn.
2: In the case multiple players lost their last character at the same time, the player who had more characters alive at the start of the last round wins.
3: In case of a tie in stage 2, the winner is the player with the later position in the Round.
